# EUTOP Mediamind Frontend

## Getting Started

### Installation

Install the dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

### Development

Start the development server with HMR:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Your application will be available at `http://localhost:5173`.

## Building for Production

Create a production build:

```bash
npm run build
```

## Deployment

### Docker Deployment

To build and run using Docker:

```bash
docker build -t mediamind .

# Run the container
docker run -p 3000:3000 mediamind
```

### DIY Deployment

If you're familiar with deploying Node applications, the built-in app server is production-ready.

Make sure to deploy the output of `npm run build`

```
├── package.json
├── package-lock.json
├── build/
│   ├── client/    # Static assets
│   └── server/    # Server-side code
```

## Styling

We use [Shadcn](https://ui.shadcn.com/) as design framework. See their documentation to see a full list of components.

In case you want to use a component, which is not yet used in our application, use the following command:

```
npx shadcn@latest add button
```

This will auto generate the specified components within the components folder.

## Backend Integration

### Types Generation

Every time a PR on the backend is closed, a new [GitHub action](../.github/workflows/generate-api-types.yml)
starts. First it fetches the OpenAPI schema from the backend, and then uses
[OpenAPI-typescript](https://openapi-ts.dev/) to generate Typescript types.
These are then stored in the [`types` package](./types) on the frontend.

### Backend Interaction

To call an API from the backend you can use [SWR-OpenAPI](https://openapi-ts.dev/swr-openapi/).
Not only does it use the autogenerated type definitions, but also provide type
checks to ensure the HTTP requests are compliant with the OpenAPI specification.
